<!-- Sort these by topic, not just for readability and sorting, but also for tags later on in the blog. Some overlap may exist with ideas that could become projects and vice versa
tags:
    Education
    Science
    Politics
    Climate Change
    Other
-->

## List of blog topics to consider:

* The overshooting of the reasons for markets and capitalism. Initially a method to not just acquire wealth, but also to invest it in a way that you could do good with it by creating growth somewhere (ie making a win-win) and helping out someone who could benefit from (temporarily) using your resources. Now with the market being increasingly as a means to just increase wealth in ways that no longer serve that second purpose (by means of microtrading and high frequency trading, derivatives), maybe we should take a step back and re-examine how we do things? 
* Discuss using the correct level of 'force' in machine learning, don't use a 19 layer RNN where a perceptron will do. Build a few examples for projects that illustrate 3 levels of machine learning.
 * Link to help explain how neural networks can compute any function http://neuralnetworksanddeeplearning.com/chap4.html
 * name suggestion: "flyswatter, shotgun and howitzer" or "Big Oh of Goldilocks"
 * for completeness sake, theme all examples on cancer detection, first using a number of features and classification yes or no, second more complicated features and type cancer, and third could be passing radiology scans as input?
 * http://scikit-learn.org/stable/datasets/#breast-cancer-wisconsin-diagnostic-database would be a good beginner dataset which only needs binary classification
 * http://news.stanford.edu/2017/01/25/artificial-intelligence-used-identify-skin-cancer/ could be a good example of an advanced classification
 * https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B1T58bZ5vYa-QlR0QlJTa2dPWVk/view might be a nice medium level example
* linked to above, certainty in machine learning is not the same as correctness: https://codewords.recurse.com/issues/five/why-do-neural-networks-think-a-panda-is-a-vulture
* Access to broadband internet is crucial to the development of (especially lower income) homes. However, this has been getting harder, especially considering policies Trump enacted. Also, how can so much of the internet be American (ICANN, Silicon Valley, etc) yet Americans have such poor and expensive access to something the rest of the world treats as a utility if not a fundamental human right?
* Novels reading and how to find them, book review page, updated sometimes.
* excitement and caution at the potential of 3D printing
* Copyright law, outdated and stiffling innovation (similar to downloading, technology always advances faster than law, but best not to be on the losing side). Anti-piracy features should never hurt legitimate users (large, padded file sizes, always-on connections needed etc), otherwise they will just spur people who want to turn them off in their (legitimate?) version and thus the crack is made. If a product is good enough on it's own merits, maybe the online marketplace holds a reality that should just be accepted that a certain percentage will be pirated, and since this is people who don't download from your source or play on your servers, but potential later customers (like the demo used to be) and otherwise would be non-customers, they provide extra exposure and thus should be used to benefit the revenue aspect of a product to complement it's current advantages, not waste time and resources combatting them, this is folly.
* The (lack of) value of a Bachelor's degree. And the total lack of value for some degrees in general.
* NSA snooping vs our constant dumping of everything on the internet. We're making it pretty easy sometimes...
* Terrorist vs freedom fighter, means matter, this leads to your credibility if you attain your goals. Think of how Ghandi (or Mao) achieved his goals. If you have to give up your morals to create a world according to your morals, what are these conditional morals worth? (think of how the main character is broken at the end of 1984), ergo regardless of methodology, greenpeace are pirates
* responsibility comes from using something. Wifi routers and websites need to be protected to a reasonable degree. It isn't really hacking if you leave the information out there. Door unlocked isn't breaking and entering, merely entering and burglary. There's a reason insurance won't pay out if you leave your stuff out in the open/unlocked. People should be required to have a reasonable understanding and protection when they access a resource. We expect someone to learn to drive before we give them the keys to our car or let them buy one. Similarly a lot of damage can be done with a computer and router, but also people should be aware of their limitations and assume a certain amount of risk and thus responsibility if they are targeted or even worse, their computer is part of a botnet. Passive activity or inability to prevent your resources from being used against others (or yourself) is in essence complicitness.
* pragmatic morals vs idealist morals, how to reconcile? Acknowledging this gives credibility, politicians should consider being more open about this. 
* Academic reputation is important, certain failures should mean stripping of title globally. Ditto politicians held accountable?
* The right to online access should flow from the right to education (is this a right? I think so). But this doesn't mean you aren't responsible for critically looking at all the information you get and processing it to form your own view and suit it to your uses. Eventually no one but you are responsible for what you do and don't do.
* respecting local policies and cultures should be done within the confines of a certain universal format (human rights declaration of the UN?). Nationalism is outdated with the large amount of immigrants and emigrants globally, plus since we face more and more global threats (terrorism, climate change, population growth etc) we should start to combat these on a global stage, this requires the economically developed nations to lead in this area.
* Though language is a living thing, that evolves over time. I adhere to the adage you first need to know/master the rules of a language before you are allowed to break it. The current inability of most people to spell or use grammar properly detracts from the ability to take them serious in whatever form of communication they are attempting. autocorrect/Spell-check is a useful tool, but it is certainly no excuse for not knowing how to spell. And with their popularization and widespreadness, how can you get away with poor spelling now?
* We need to go back to the moon, expand nasa. If not for the value to inspire a generation to go into STEM fields, but for the fact that a lot of the science they do leads to useful innovations. Science in general should be funded more since 70% of the current US economy is based on basic science research done 30 years ago.
* Science requires falsifiabilty. In today's culture of publish or perish, people tend to focus on such minute results of their studies when they don't go as planned, that the published research has little to no actual value. Many experiments haven't been reproducible, but their results have been taken as the basis for further study. When are we going too fast and when are we going too slow?
* There are some confounding politicians out there (America being the most public, but by no means the only). Should the power they wield in global scales not require a certain prerequisite of knowledge or morality? How can people take them serious. Is this not a sign of how poorly informed/discriminating the public is?
* Democracy should be based on informed opinions on subjects and not the representatives. too much cause for fraud. However, the issue of lobbyists becomes pressing then (more than the corrupt US as it is (new topic?)). Hire a group of administrators to deal with most issues as best as can be established, review periodically. Their performance is based on the consensus of the people, not their personal motivation. This however still leads to the problem with democracy being a poor form of government (new topic, people are idiots, why should we suffer for their ignorance?)
* There exists no right to not be offended
* The outdated nature of nationalism, patriotism and how certain ideologies seem to transcend and trump it.
* privacy is an artifical construct, related to above post, going out in public/internet leads to being visible, that's part of life. That data should be available and so should the data of who uses it.
* personal abilities with cheaper drones, personal 3d printers etc leads to responsibility for their use.
    * Should it be regulated to the point of exclusion (like requiring a license to get one?)
    * Should it be policed in the sense that everyone can have access as long as their behavior is within a certain agreed upon confine
    * Should it be made illegal, outright?
* personal resonsibility vs safety of everyone. Gun control and mental health access. Who is truly to blame? Gun control is no real solution, someone who wants to kill others can find a way, though we shouldn't make it too easy. The point is to help/prevent this through social policing and easy access to mental health care/get rid of the stigma
* Veterans need the best treatment we can muster, both in the form of (mental) health care, benefits and job training. This should be lifelong. Use this to help develop methods to help the rest of the population (prosthetics or trauma procedures can help civilians too).
* lack of grounded argument for anti-gay stance, similar to other discrimination views. Sharing doesn't diminish one's own of something (in which case celebrity marriages should be protested much more).
* Make several lists, where the two extremes of any given spectrum are used as the metric (richest country per capita, best test scores by country etc), so ignore the top and bottom 5% or so and see how the bulk of a country really ranks without all their outliers.
* create a reputation tracking website, use companies and brands that are verified on twitter for example as your metric. Events are either positive or negative and thus increase their reputation negative or positively. Events fade in time, but trends can hurt reputation long term, base these events on social media reports and their being in the news. Website should be accessible to all and the current reputation is visible. Then monetize it by selling companies access to their reputations over the past period and the subscription also allows them to 'simulate' an even they are planning's effect on their reputation based on the previous events that are similar in reputation's database. FINAL Project for CS50?
    * Maybe use it to track Politicians consistency with their promises, their financial backers, how consistently they vote on certain issues
    * Consider tracking poor behavior online (twitter hate speach, dick pics, inappropriate DMs etc)
* create a model for the earth's climate based on all non-human factors, plus the known (expected) natural effects adding to species that are now a bigger factor because humans haven't made them extinct or culled their habitat. Show that non-anthropogenic climate change isn't likely.
* We need to redesign cars if they become autonomous. That would be safer for us in terms of number of accidents, but it could also increase the survivability of car accidents if we don't have to face the front and be near the glass. Has this been done for trains and planes or are they just mass transit mechanisms?
* Rethinking education is needed. With online learning and technology and with AR/VR coming we should be able to do better than lecture halls and the old way of teaching. Just because teachers learned that way. Look at MIT's supply chain master and Georgia Tech's CompSci master.
* Stratification of knowledge, how it is becoming increasinly hard to keep up to date in your field due to the sheer volume of information, but also how difficult it can be at times to keep apprised of the developments in another field. 
    * Scientists may have a duty to make their research available to the public, but how much of the onus is on them to make it understandable. You would present it differently if the reader were a peer, fellow scientist but in another field, student or layman. 
    * As outreach becomes more a field in and of itself, and the distance between the scientific frontier and the lay person grows, how long should the trail of breadcrumbs be and who should be responsible for putting them there?
* Leveraging the connectedness of the internet and the many teaching resources to help students (and non students) everywhere.
    *The case study would be that if you are a computer science student, you can find any number of resources online, from coursera, udacity, to ocw to just googling lecture notes and examples, to help you with your understanding of a topic. This has also been expanded to include other topics, but what if we leverage this ability on purpose?
    * The Bologna Agreement already states that universities need to recognize and honor each other's courses based on topic and ECTS. But what if we also create a central repository of courses, where each degree contains certain courses (maybe not necessarily each one being the same, but there should be enough overlap that at least partially this is feasible). These courses can then be given a certain code and practice material, lecture notes and lectures, student help sessions on fora or other social media platforms can develop (saving the professors time and allowing students to help one another). Allowing teachers to contribute to a pool of resources as it were, where both educators and students alike can draw from in case a method being offered to them is currently not working, or they need a little more help. 
    * This could even be done at various scales, not just on the course scale, but also degree scale and even topic scale. While the laws of thermodynamics don't change, you could say a course at the TUM contains certain topics, and a similar course at another university contains a subset of these topics, but switching out 2 or 3. This way if a student has trouble with a certain topic, or a certain topic is unclear, they can find resources at that level too.
* Write an opinion editorial about how America is now a poor example of a working democracy. It's current election (scandals) are scaring fledgeling democracies, and maybe the entire media circus and corruption are things not to do, perhaps citing the way Europeans do things is a better example to hold up to the world.
* Explore aide to the developing world, its effectiveness and ethics. Stay as objective as possible and add opinion based on the facts covered (make it clear what's what) also, point out the various cultural biases and how some forms of aide aren't really aide (especially if its conditional, like RC church does and now the US)
* engineers for humanity
    * hold monthly workshops with 20 students to brainstorm solutions to a given problem (themed)
    * suggest relevant companies sponsor the evening (pay for free food for the students), keep their name connected to that potential project
    * students can choose to take up a potential solution (individually or as a group) and work it through (maybe with connecting to the company)
* research the realistic effects of the realistic predictions of climate change
    * People who don't believe in it can go suck on an egg, the rest of us should be able to prepare and maybe even profit
    * to prepare using the predictions. Migrating areas for food production, rising costs,
    * alternate rainfall, wind, flooding and drought patterns.
* Comparison of banking practices of various countries. Reasons why they (still) do things a certain way and the reasons it's a bad idea. 
* Are we combating the threat of self-radicalized terrorist threats properly, aren't we polarizing any muslims here into an 'us vs them' society where we could be pushing a large amounts of potential allies away and even worse, large amounts of neutrals into the other corner. 
    * On the other hand, killing them with kindness could be perceived as a sign of weakness by those already converted and make them redouble their efforts, or help them recruit more by giving them ammunition for their propaganda.
* Write a post about how America's oil companies not evolving and dealing with climate change is similar to the American car industry in the past, ignoring innovation and evolving when they were in the lead and before they knew it they were playing catch up. Considering the stakes and size of the industry, it's possible this collapse of their international position could cost them a lot more in terms of energy security, international position and perspective, jobs and other ways the US oil and energy industry affects the country.
*  Can we gamify much of middle school education? Especially for those more abstract skills like problem solving, hypothesizing a solution and testing it. 
    * Many problems and educations just need to be rebranded and presented in a different light to get people to understand and enjoy.
    * Considering how few people really understand how a lot of things work, but not necessarily due to a lack of understanding, just poor instruction. They (and by extension, we as a society) shouldn't be the victims of this.
    * Could this also make learning addictive, and increase the pace at which (some) people learn, instead of the one-speed-fits-all set up of schools that inevitably either bores of outpaces students.
    *Even if it doesn't replace classroom learning, making it available online (for free?) can make for a very good additional resource for people. Perhaps also helping spark interest in STEM since many puzzles can be underpinned by physics, math, engineering etc
* Book that includes the math you DO need when becoming an adult. Learning how taxes and such work. How to calculate a loan's true cost. Etc
    * Target those in middle and high school and assume very little prior knowledge (variables and percentages and angles definition)
* History I wasn't taught in school. Add some of the more fascinating (side) stories that history in school often glossed over. Like China's rise and fall. Life in Rome after the sack. Carthage as an entity before the sack. Macedon before Alex, England before the Romans, the Celts. Etc. Japan before/during ww2. The full history of the Aztecs, Incas, Maya and other tribes before the white men arrive.
    * The Vikings apart from raiding England.
* Book about bad science performed by the respected scientific establishment (none of these quantum crystal shit). Stuff that went wrong while people were trying to be scientific. Also just bad experiments and crazy hypotheses that got tested and thrown out. 
    * Things like giving psychic patients electro shock therapy willynilly, giving soldiers LSD, the Stanford Prison Experiment.
* Make a literary map of something. Favorite books or a region 
* A central European research agency to coordinate and distribute budget. Basic and applied research like NASA and DARPA. 
    * Does it exist? Otherwise create it
* Where did China visit in their old age of exploration? What about the Aztecs? North America?
* Building an ANN from distinct electrical components, where the different components used a variation of UDP to communicate down the link. The signal loss could be used to 'simulate' the unreliable neural link. 
    * Consider using new techniques for this like communication between components with light or other ways currently more advanced chips are being designed to overcome the bandwidth issue.
* Could the setting off of a few volcanoes like in 1815 in Indonesia, that causes a (temporary) winter lowering temperatures around the world. Buying time while we fix the carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. 
    * Would this temporary cooling help at all or would the increased carbon dioxide emission and absorbtion into the ocean etc just make this a bad idea.
    * could this be 2 steps back for one step forward considering the amount of CO2 a volcano emits?
* Make a cool map of Boston, Montreal or San Diego for Liz:
    * Literary one
    * Rotated one
    * Different filters one
    * Something more personal to her, showing areas that are important to her in a number of interesting representations
* Show various maps in different orientations to how we are used to seeing them. Like Maine in non north south. But do have city names right side up.
    * Also show some random areas put together and mapped like areas between fault lines or Rivers and mountains as dividers
* Book that shows each civilisations knowledge of the world around them through their maps. Compare the various stages of advancement and the styles of the maps. See how they influence over another as the civilizations meet. 
* To what extent are optimization programs and random/genetic algorithms used to optimize chip design? Is there a theoretical maximum in density that we already have reached and it is now more a question of power/best dissipation?
    * How about the creation of non linear and new designed logic gates/transistors?
* Consider the half-way there portion of our desire to get human gene editing to work for designer babies. Would we discard the ones we don't think are good enough? Would we create beings that suffer immensely? What is ethical (what about the fact that some people will do it anyways, and this could create a sort of arms race or an even wider divide between haves and have-nots)? There's certain plenty of historical precedent about this.